>> Mike North: First,
let me introduce myself, my name is Mike.
And I work at LinkedIn,
where two things I do make me a great
person to talk to you about TypeScript.
Number one,
I run the developer training program, so
I am a workshop instructor for
the company.
Where I help level up all of
all of the engineers there,
in a various array of topics,
including TypeScript.
And number two,
I am a tech lead on the front-end stack,
where I predominantly focus on
TypeScript adoption, right?
On making it so that if teams wish to
use TypeScript with their project,
everything works smoothly, and
the documentation tools work, and
all of the linting works nicely.
So I have been knee-deep in this area,
and I'm so
happy to be here to share a lot
of what I've learned with you.
So first, before we jump in, and
we're gonna get our hands dirty
really quickly here,
within about 10 minutes.
Let's first pin down exactly what
TypeScript is, so we know what to expect.
So it's an open-source
programming language, primarily,
it's maintained by a core team
of developers at Microsoft.
And it's a typed,
syntactic superset of JavaScript.
What that means is,
if you take TypeScript syntax,
you can kind of see
JavaScript's syntax within it.
It does not mean that every
JavaScript program can happily
run through the TypeScript
compiler without any errors.
So there is sometimes
confusion about that.
Now, it's true that if you loosen
up the TypeScript compiler,
and kind of set it in the most
flexible possible mode,
a lot of regular JavaScript
programs can make it happy.
But there are inherently things you can do
with a really flexible, dynamically typed
language like JavaScript, that will never
make a strongly typed language happy.
TypeScript compiles to
readable JavaScript, and
it has no runtime part,
no runtime component.
What that means to you is that
the types disappear in a build step.
So you're just really, you can almost
think of it like a static analysis tool
that does a lot of
checking on your codebase.
But when you have that build that
you're sending to your users, or
that you're running in Node.js?
Unless you do some
really exotic backflips,
none of that type-checking is there.
And that's good in some ways,
and that's bad in other ways.
It's good in that there's
no cost at runtime, right,
it's not gonna slow your app down.
Runtime type-checking,
that's extra code that every user in
every browser is gonna be running.
So TypeScript disappearing in
a build step is good there.
But of course, when you're
receiving some data from a fetch,
or you're getting some input from a user?
It's important to understand that
there's really no type-checking that's
gonna happen there, because at that point,
it's just a JavaScript program.
So the project kinda has
three things inside of it.
There's the programming language itself,
there's the language server.
Which is a program that kind of feeds
your text editor a lot of great
information that can manifest
itself in auto-completes and
tool tips,
as you hover over various things.
The language server is sort of
something that you can query about,
what's going on with my
program at this point?
And then there's the compiler, and
that is used by the language server.
But it is what actually
performs the type-checking, and
it is one way of taking TypeScript
files and emitting JavaScript files.
A huge advancement that came along with
Babel 7, and Babel's what's let us take
modern JavaScript, and kind of boil it
down so that Internet Explorer can run it.
And so you can just simply state
which browsers you care about and
you get something compatible.
Babel can now take
TypeScript files as inputs.
Now, it's important to understand that
no type-checking is involved in there.
Babel kind of just knows which parts
of the TypeScript code it can eat and
ignore, leaving only
the JavaScript behind.
So you definitely wanna use the TypeScript
compiler side-by-side with Babel.
But the important advancement there is,
you have one piece of tooling that's
responsible for creating your JS files.
You don't have to worry about,
how does TypeScript represent a class for
Internet Explorer?
How does Babel represent it, and
is there gonna be a collision there, so
you can have a great
assurance of consistency.
And almost think of the TypeScript
compiler as a really fancy linter,
or another static analysis tool
that just kind of verifies that
everything looks good, but
doesn't actually produce output.
So since I taught the last version
of this course for Frontend Masters,
which was in 2017,
we've seen a 300% increase in downloads.
And we can see, this is a monthly
download graph on the bottom.
We can see that it's
basically matched React,
in terms of popularity and
prevalence of use.
So NPM does a survey every year,
and they ask their respondents,
what flavor of a JavaScript-y
language do you use?
CoffeeScript, or do you use ES6,
or ES5, or TypeScript?
And it turns out, 46% of respondents
said that in some part or
another of their programming,
they make use of TypeScript.
And if you look at all
of the packages in NPM,
over 40% of them declare TypeScript
as a dependency or devDependency.
So you're probably using it,
even if you don't think you're using it.
You're using something that's
written in this typed language,
and depending on that type-checking.
And potentially, you could take
advantage of that type information.